when is it okay for you to lose your
patience do you guys ever heard that
sentence before I'm about to lose my
patience you heard it before did you say
it before well yeah sometimes when is it
okay for you to lose your
patience the the
problem is when we understand the word
patience
incorrectly and many of us may not be
patient because we don't know what
patience means are you guys with me so
be right off the bat we have to
understand what does Patience mean and
let me tell you that through a story one
time I was teaching a class about about
character in Fort Lauderdale in Florida
and I started speaking about sa and
patience and explaining you know some
examples Hadi and aat and as I was
saying the word patience patience
patience an English teacher came to me
and that brother said to me brother
Majid honestly in the English language
the word patience is not a true
definition and translation to inabi
they're very different and I respect his
discipline and his understanding of the
language he said because in general in
general the word patience in English is
passive there's not much action in it it
just like remains silent and so on and
so forth but in Islam sa is active sa is
work not just remain no there's
sometimes you have to talk you have to
speak up and sometimes you have to be
physical and that's all part of sa so
with that being said what is sa and now
I will use the word patience for sa but
now think of it with the way we will
Define it right now ready
inshallah has three parts to its
definition there's three parts to its
definition number one something to do
with the heart something to do with what
the tongue and something to do with the
limbs if you get all three then you're
of the and this is a definition from our
Scholars may Allah bless
ready for you to be patient that means
your heart should never ever be
hopeless should never ever be
hopeless you never give up on Allah and
you're simply a type of person that
never gives up on Allah's Rah fair
enough what about the tongue for you to
be a patient individual that means your
tongue never complains about Allah your
tongue never complains about about who
Allah so far so good and what about the
limbs the body the hands and the legs
you never use them in Disobedience of
Allah you never use them in Disobedience
of Allah now with this understanding
of let me ask you the question one more
time when is it okay to lose your
patience go ahead
never may Allah Grant you Jenna and I
intentionally chose her because she
answered the first time I asked and now
her answer changed at the beginning she
said may Allah Grant you Sayan at the
beginning she said we can lose our
patience when we grieve and now she said
never what changed her understanding of
the
word and many times in Islam we go
through confusion because we just simply
may not know exactly what the word means
in English we may use that context I'm
going to lose my patience if I grieve
because it means such and such in the
language if Allah's boundaries are being
crossed so and so no but the in essence
of you never lose it that is why it's
the only trait that Allah will reward
you without account you see the
combination Allah
says those who are patient will be
rewarded with an open check the name is
there that signature has is done but the
amount is open so what's the amount
Infinity only to those who are patient
allahar may Allah make so are we ready
to talk about one of the greatest
examples and stories of sa in all of
humanity are you ready
inshallah we learn in wonderful
character and the hero of our
session and his lineage he comes from
the lineage of prophet
ibraim so his great great great
grandfather is
ibraim a growing as a strong ambitious
man and he was very truthful he never
lied he was very grateful he was very
humble never was he arrogant in addition
to all the
beautiful guess what he was very
physically strong and very very handsome
and
then was he taught us something that
every single Prophet had a job what was
that job a Shepherd you see that every
single Prophet had a job and that was a
shepherd and at one point in his life he
was not shy to work as a low minimum
wage job so may Allah grant us
humbleness and
wisdom so that's what he did at his job
and then you move on and yes you think
about who did he get married to the
topic of marriage may Allah grant us all
righteous family say a mean his wife
famously known as
Leia and she was was the
granddaughter of none other than who
Prophet
Yu FYI throughout the sessions inshallah
I want to tell you some of the
references
ready the story of a is mainly in two
parts of the Quran and in two main
authentic Hadi four total that's
summarized fair enough two ayat or two
passages
and and then in two authentic narrations
about which I'll touch on all four the
fillers are ones that will not
contradict the Quran and Hadith fair
enough so we can fill it up as long as
it does not contradict me Allah grant us
wisdom what about his wealth how did he
survive how did he work what was the
situation we know that was into the
cattle business what does that mean you
know people have a dealership they buy
cars they sell cars and so on so he got
into the whole cattle business and aam
start to grow and grow and grow his
business and then he heard some
wonderful news what's a wonderful news
that a newly wed can hear
eventually that now they're expecting a
baby they're expecting a child and
obviously they were very happy with that
the business grow grew so much let me
share with you some of his wealth ready
he had 500 donkeys is that a lot you
know what I did forgive me but sometimes
we need to bring the stories to life
right so I try to see how much is a
donkey sold for just to know how much
money he has donkeys roughly I'm saying
roughly okay any Farmers or whatever any
cattle workers well whatever your name
is forgive me okay it's about $1,500 a
donkey so he had about
$750,000 of donies he had 3,000 camels
roughly a camel roughly speaking is
about
10,500 so that's about $2.4 million
today's time and then he had 500 Yol of
oxin what in the world is that so the
oxin is a trained bull then two of them
go into this and that's the most
expensive thing and Allah knows best
that was worth $7.5 million today's time
lastly he had $7,000 sheep and that
7,000 sheep how much is sheep you guys
have to know
this those they know how much around 2
around 260 huh 350 350 that's what I
have 350 right so 260 350 and so on so
about roughly speaking $2.4 million
today's time so he was a multi
multi-millionaire let me test you ready
what was the the prophet that Allah in
both times in the Quran and Allah
mentions that Prophet first then the
story of a who is that Prophet right
before a in the Quran the story is
mentioned who is the richest human being
That Ever Walked on Earth prophet suan
Alam so with that being said and his
business is growing and growing and
growing so did his family this is just
amazing right he has seven sons and
three daughters may Allah bless our
children as sometimes people call it
today hash
goals may Allah protect us and make us
have good goals it's a lovely scene
think of husband wife seven sons three
kids all wearing the same uniform how
beautiful is that picture he is is the
great great grandson of ibraim alam very
handsome his wife is the granddaughter
of YF
inall I remember I remember when I was
rehearsing this one of the people I was
reviewing it with they said
in for sure Envy came about and we'll
see if that actually is the case may
Allah grant us all Jenna say a mean now
what's so amazing about him as rich as
he was it was narrated kind
he was the richest human being in the
entire region but he did not forget
about the people who were less fortunate
and there's two highlights about him I
pray to Allah that we can have those
attributes in US ready inshallah number
one Alam says I would never go sleep
with a full stomach knowing someone
while I know cuz sometimes you may not
know while I know someone is hungry not
on my watch I would never accept that so
whenever he hears of someone who truly
cannot help themselves and need support
and so on right away he goes ahead and
supports them and makes sure they have
enough food for their basically
well-being may Allah protect us and save
our blessing say I mean what's the other
thing is clothing what about clothing
that was his rule as rich as he was
multi-millionaire as you guys have seen
he says I would not buy extra clothing
knowing someone else is in need of
clothing so he buys a nice shirt a nice
clothing whatever he has but he will not
buy extra colors for example until he's
sure all those around have proper
clothing and that was from his and his
generosity what do you think would be
one of the greatest blessings Allah
would have given there's
more all what you said there's more
there's more but that
blessing very few people have and it
will never happen again what's that
blessing it is actually one last I go
ahead Prophet Hood
masallah may Allah bless your
father okay did you see my notes all
right Revelation
eventually he received Revelation
when he was a great Muslim a devout
worshipper God-fearing man that money
never phased him may Allah make money
not F us say a mean and push us to do
that which is and that is good so Allah
chose him
Allah among all his people Allah says
you are the prophet that will be sent to
his people Allah called
him Allah called
him he is of the righteous Allah said
about a and the prophets we chose them
over all
beings not just that there's four things
number three we gave him the book and
Revelation and wisdom
continue what does it mean this is the
moral of the story is this one Allah
says these are the ones Allah chose
these are your role models so take them
as Role Models that's what Allah said so
are you ready to take them as Role
Models inshallah see how great his life
was going by but I want to ask you a
question since he became a
prophet does his salary of hassat
increase I don't understand come on
when you get a promotion to become a
manager does your usually your pay
increase yes when you manage more people
does your pay increase but what also
increases responsib
responsibilities when it comes to D many
of us are okay we don't even think of
responsib we actually go and we
negotiate the package how much am I
getting paid you actually sometimes
forget or not pay attention to the
responsibilities not because you're not
a focused individual because you're
really moved by what how much right am I
am I right in a way and once you know
how much you're like you know what I'm
in do you know the responsibilities it
doesn't matter Subhan Allah many of us
go through that how many of us are in
jobs or where at jobs and we said we
would never move but then a nice package
comes your way you're like Subhan Allah
it's 75 hours a week but yet but it's
350 a year so I work at this company may
Allah protect us so what are you trying
to say as we get closer to to Allah we
get paid more H which means what the
responsibilities are more that's how it
works so why when it comes to Allah
we're so hesitant and we're like No And
we focus on the responsibility and we
forget about the reward but let me share
with you something ready for this rule
of thumb ready for it when it comes to
the good and
the focus on the pleasure and forget the
pain when it comes to the Haram focus on
what the pain and forget about the
pleasure and that's something we have to
really pay attention to and many of us
perhaps have heard of the story of the
person who's trying to hunt for a wolf
you heard that before someone's trying
to hunt a wolf in the tundra in a very
cold area so what did he do he knows
that wolves they love
blood so what he did is that he got a
double edged knife very sharp and he saw
a penguin that was dead like how does
that happen just move on in the example
he dipped that knife into the the the
blood of the seal or the Penguin and
when he took it off what happened it's a
popsicle right it's what a popsicle it's
not ice cream it's blood and what's in
it is not a wooden stick it's a double
edged knife so what he did is the upside
down he put it into the snow and who
smelt it the WF the wolf and who got
excited W and who's getting closer so
the wolf came and start what did he
start to do start licking how do you
know this stuff right right did you do
this right and he start licking and
licking the blood and licking the blood
and as he's licking the warmth of his
breath what is it doing to the blood
it's making it melt he's licking and
licking and licking until all the blood
what melts then he licks and what
happens to his tongue gets cut and what
does he do continues
licking because the blood is now warm
and
fresh and then eventually what happens
to the wolf dies the wolf focused on the
pleasure and forgot the pain he focused
on licking and licking for a minute or
two and all the blood gushed out of his
body like this is awesome may Allah
protect us and not fall into this many
of us sell our families and sell our
close righteous friends all that for a
pleasure a trip here or a trip there or
a hang out here or a hang out there when
it comes to theam what do you focus on
and what do you forget about may Allah
protect us so Alam got this upgrade and
when he has all these things what
happens next what happens next envy and
jealousy begins a person comes in a
group in that group the people were
saying how amazing is a wonderful person
calls people to Allah so wealthy
wonderful family all this kids love each
other guys you guys noticed that right
yeah it's amazing wonderful thing how
great of a Muslim We wish all Muslims
were like that Allah as the prophet tell
us what does the prophet
say how amazing is good money in the
hands of a good what person may Allah
make us of them
y one guy one person sitting in that
Gathering what did he
say and why would why and why would he
not be a good
Muslim what do you mean why would he not
be a good Muslim like you guys are
praising a wow amazing I've never seen
anything on earth like him
relax if someone Allah gave him
everything money wonderful wife great
children wonderful job Perfection why he
will not worship Allah obviously he
worships Allah I'll tell you something
let that wealth go away let Allah take
that wealth away from him and you will
see A's True Colors whether he's Muslim
righteous or not time has passed time
has passed L one behold someone comes to
a panic mode what's going on they what
happened a group of Thieves a large
group of Thieves this was planned
straight up what happened while the oxin
were plowing and the donkeys were
grazing we were attacked by a group of
people and they took us all all to the
sword and he threatened us and they came
and they took all of them they took
their time even the camels so the oxin
and the camels and the donkeys are all
gone all of them gone y we don't know
what to tell you overnight 2third of his
wealth is gone and while they're talking
a thunderstorm takes place and lightning
strikes
what the barn where the Sheep is at or
the area where the Sheep is at and what
does that lightning do causes fire so
someone else comes from the other Farm
same time y y and still did not even
completely hear the first story y your
sheep what happened they all got burnt
by the storm the
lightning what is this and the first
thing that he did was what
collapse he went down and he prayed to
Allah subhanahu waala that was his first
reaction and I want to remember
something very important to all us ready
for
this when you talk when you hear about
the
reward the maximum reward of patience is
given
when at the first strike so let me give
you an
example Al wasam was seeing a woman in
front of a grave crying and weeping he
wants to calm her down and help her out
in the best way possible so he told her
you know be patient you know encouraging
imagine the Prophet advising you allahar
she did not know it was the prophet she
did not know so she said just get away
from here man you don't know what I'm
going through he does not know what
you're going through the one who buried
six out of his seven children with his
own hand he knows what you're going
through so the prophet being the wise
man he didn't go back and forth he
walked away then the people came to her
and said what's wrong with you you know
who's the one who just gave you advice
who was it it was the prophet of Allah
then she realized that righteous woman
may Allah bless her and and allow us to
see her in Jenna she rushed to the
prophet sallallahu alaih wasallam and
then she said please ask Allah to
forgive me and he was very respectful
with her and he taught her a Hadith that
we all hear till the day of judgment
inshallah ready he told
her the full reward of patience is given
when you're able to handle the first
strike but it doesn't mean if you failed
at the first moment you won't be
rewarded but it gets reduced may Allah
make us all patient at the first strike
say a mean and that's what a did the
strike came allahar and this is the
Sunnah to do whenever you hear bad news
many of us what do you do when you hear
good news honestly what happens right
some sometimes what do you do you go to
S and it's you go right to prostration
sisters without your hijab without W
anything it's okay go to s brothers no
Direction you just went to S but we
should do the same move also so when we
Face difficulty can we do that
inshallah the prophet Sall it was
said whenever he hears news that was so
tough to handle what did he do he rushed
to Salah can we do that inshallah before
you talk before you respond to the email
before you reply to the text it's a very
T I'm not saying every message you won't
finish you get fired from your job but
at very difficult times is so angry try
to make
he was seen when he was on his camel
traveling and he was told your brother
died he went off the cam didn't say much
allahar so he said that was a strange
reaction Abbas he said Allah says in the
Quran what do you see in the Quran
Allah said to help you be patient seek
patience work upon it try your best and
go and pray Allah says Allah say not
easy Allah says you going to pray being
is not easy he says accept those who
love Allah and try their best may Allah
make us of them say a mean so when this
happened you know what he
said what does it mean this is something
we learn from the prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam when something tough and
bad news reaches him what does he say
alhamdulillah praise be to Allah in
every situation I'm not going to say
Allah is the best when things are going
good I will also say Allah's the best
when things are going wrong in my point
of view is that fair enough who here can
tell us it's a bit longer now it's a bit
challenging but you guys got it ready
what did he used to say when when he
used to hear good news so bad news what
does he say just say it together if you
know it
ald praise be to Allah in every
situation when he hears good news
something great happens what does he say
alhamdulillah praise be to Allah the one
with his help good things
happen knows what what's in his head
Allah taking the money away from me is
good or
bad is good or bad but does he know why
no but that's his trust in Allah and
that's why abuali Malik if I'm not
mistaken he said the reason people have
the the reason many people lose their
patience is because they're not certain
in the wisdom and the reward of the one
they're being patient for when you know
what you're being patient for I'm sure
all will agree when you know why you're
being patient for you'll be patient for
it yes or no it's valuable so he knows
what Allah has awaiting for him and
that's why he's being patient Muslims
non-muslims all of us will suffer all of
us Allah says all of us will go through
it so what are you trying to tell us
again don't you ever say why me it's Why
Us and I'm not saying I'm a hater and
you're not a hater but the way humans
work when I know you're suffering my
suffering
decreases true or
not remember that one time you got an F
not
me you remember you got an F and your
report card chemistry remember brother
I'm alhamdulillah I'm 7 5 now move
on remember when you got that report
card or that let's say that test back it
was out of out of 100 and you got 42 and
then brother Ahmed told you hey Majid
what did you get you're like none of
your business remember Ahmed says come
on M bro don't be like that tell us what
did you get in your chemistry class mind
your own business it will not affect
your future in any way shape or form
leave me alone so Ahmed says I don't
care whether you tell me or not Ahmed
said I will tell you my grade Ahmed what
she get I got a 42 me too
subh let me see what you got let me see
well question two what happened you're
not a loser you're a human being and
that's why there's focused groups and
circles when people struggle you need to
look into their stories and that's how
you survive was a you patient did he
pass you agree we found him patient
five stars five stars
mashab his wife stayed next to him she
knows her lifestyle will no longer be
the same whatever purses she had or
whatever clothing his sons seven sons
three daughters it will never be the
same but they all stuck together are you
guys going to stick together with me or
no or the F of the chairs are
distracting
you if the chairs are distracting
imagine money may Allah bless yall say a
mean all right so then individuals start
talking well about
who's value increased or decreased
increased Allah took all of his money
this man I wish my son I'm giving
examples would grow to be like a I wish
my daughter and my sister would marry
someone like a how he was able to be
patient in This calamity W it will make
a mountain crumble and the men know
those who work so hard when the finances
Drop Like That that what happens to
their mind and so on and how they got
the strength it's belief in Allah but
who spoke that same loser again remember
that
loser he says whatever
whatever money comes and money comes and
goes the stock goes down today tomorrow
goes up don't sell your stocks and he
said a this man we say he's not a
special man why would he not be a good
Muslim you know how bad you know how
hard is
to have good kids you see how his kids
and by the way the narration says that
his kids loved one another so much and
siblings you know how hard that is to
achieve and may Allah bless every
sibling and make us love one another
upon the truth so this loser says you
see how cute his kids are they keep
visiting one another they getting older
and so on and so forth let me tell you
let God take one of his kids away and
you'll see how you collapse so indeed
what happens the oldest son the oldest
son of
aam hosts his six brothers and how many
sisters three at his
house and they used to alternate every
brother was to host all the family and
you alternate and this time it was with
the oldest brother's house as they were
having dinner and they were eating a
thunderstorm took
place and severe winds came about
a and his wife were not present at that
time and as things were very difficult
and you remember that back in the day or
you know back in the day it was not
concrete walls like what we have today
or strong walls may Allah protect our
home say a
mean four corners of the house was
struck by the wind and the entire house
collapsed and the ceiling
fell and people do not know exactly what
happened to his kids and right when this
happened someone rushed to aam yeah and
in panic mode I don't know what to tell
you the wind was so strong and perhaps a
noticed it and what happened your kids
what happened the entire house collapsed
on them all of them are dead all of them
are
dead this time he cried BEC and he
collapsed and he added something he said
alhamdulillah and he was crying he says
to Allah we belong and to Allah we shall
return and he
cried an auntie today messaged me she
said I cannot wait to attend your
session I cannot wait to hear the
content I want to ask you a question
that's what she said how did a not lose
his mind when his kids died that's why
she said
how did he not lose his mind when all
his kids died may Allah forgive us say a
mean and that's a good question yes or
no and this happens losing kids don't
think what are the chances of this
happening you kidding me you live in
Michigan and you ask this question may
Allah protect us say a mean what
recently happened something that you
would never imagine what happened in b
remember may Allah her may Allah her
have to her family Sayan when she was in
Bel is and was struck by a car may Allah
protect us and I spoke to the father and
I attended the funeral and I never knew
something until then you know what was
it few years ago what did the father H
go through and the mother they lost
their son with a with a car that struck
his own
son this is here is heading home
so none is immune so when I read the
Ayah where Allah says everyone will be
tested Allah says I did not translate
Allah we will all test you so not why me
it's happening may Allah grant them all
patience
and it's very tough story after Story
last one last one Canada Halifax Nova
Scotia in
2017 a father a mother seven kids came
from Syria and when they came from Syria
it's on YouTube the Canadian government
we're celebrating their coming wonderful
family escaped War escaped War
2019 a fire breaks in their house Panic
at night all sleeping the father tells
his wife run run get some help as he was
trying to help his kids out he couldn't
all his seven kids died and he had 8% of
degree of type burn and he was in a coma
for several months
it happens may Allah grant
them so how can these brothers and
sisters how can we go through something
like that or less may Allah protect us
and yet be patient I told you Muslims
non Muslims we all go through it but the
difference the Muslim has the tools to
cope with it the Muslim has the tools to
survive it and the six words I will
repeat it till the day I return back to
Allah it's the if all the content I
deliver these are the six words on a
personal side what helps me
sometimes I fail sometimes I pass six
words Allah will never make you go
through something you cannot
handle
how that's what moves us that's what
make us keep walking and that's what
helps us survive and this Ayah the last
verse ofak chapter 2 was not revealed
like any other a yes or no what do you
mean I'm confused the whole Quran comes
to you from Allah to who to who help me
jiel jiel then he sends it to Muhammad
sallallahu alaihi wasallam this a those
six words and the Ayah before did not
come through the it came from Allah
to when the prophet met Allah and Salah
became obligatory because those words is
what we need more than any time in our
lives you will never be tested with
something except you have the capacity
to pass can you believe in that to give
you an example real real life
example the wife
of may Allah be pleased by both of them
they had a kid when Abu T was
traveling that's when's son passed
away and then she told her family and
her
neighbors I don't want anyone to tell
Abu tal when he comes back your son died
okay I want to be the one who tells him
about it
they listened they respected her
requests then when Abu came back the
Muslim it's an authentic
narration she prepared herself after the
months or the weeks she did not see her
husband very much pretty herself
beautified herself her husband and she
prepared a wonderful dinner the Hadith
says he came and he ate and he had a
relationship with his spouse after
everything everything was done she told
her husband and asked him a
question after he ate and
everything if our
neighbor gave a
plate to another person and that
neighbor now wants the plate
back is there anything wrong with the
process with the procedure with those
steps can the other person be upset like
why do you want your plate back
he said of course not because that plate
belongs to the neighbor she said
similarly your child because when he
came he asked her how is my kid she said
he rested In Peace So he thought he's
sleeping you see that she didn't lie so
she said similarly your son what about
him he belongs to Allah and he returned
back to Allah
he was angry he said you made me eat and
enjoy the night and
everything after all this we enjoyed the
night and everything now my son died he
got so angry feder came about he met the
prophet said one two three happened
which I just told you so the prophet you
know what he
said may Allah bless your night the
narrator says
after this Allah blessed them with nine
children all of them people of Quran
that memorize the Quran and apply the
Quran the Dua the Barak of the prophet
sallallah alhi wasallam and the Baraka
of the patience of the woman who
understood a line that should be
engraved in our hearts what's that
line I can handle this and mainly to
Allah we belong and to Allah we shall
return this is temporary allahar may
Allah Grant such understanding as this
wonderful wonderful
woman the evil man he
sees patient he gets angry how is he
patient how can he lose all those kids
and
say and he nothing like no wailing like
not why you did this to me so he that
evil person goes to a and he says yeah a
oh I'm so sorry for what happened to
your kids I know it's very tough I I saw
them with my own eyes I saw them
bleeding and their bones crushed and
broken look who does that the same
people that share photos of dead people
just to irritate others with that
intention may Allah protect us say I
mean I saw them bleeding and their bones
crushed I was part of the people that
actually removed the rubble and the dirt
it was tough so he says to him it's not
befitting for us to be happy when Allah
gives
us and to be hopeless when he takes back
[Music]
Allah says some people when Allah gives
them and blesses them they said Allah
loves me
[Music]
guys but when some something wrong goes
with this same person he says Allah
hates me I don't know why Allah did that
to me just yesterday you said Allah
loves you you worship Allah with
conditions you have prerequisites of
when to pray and when not when it's
exams you line up in Salah and when
exams pass pass and you pass your test
you stop the Salah what kind of worship
is that may Allah protect us Y and help
us all we all suffer we all struggle may
Allah make it easy
say what is the next word that Allah
says after that y raise your hand please
one word what's the
word Allah says no that's not how I do
things Allah says no I don't give those
who I love and I take from those I hate
Allah says this is not how life works
the prophet says Allah gives D the
worldly life money looks Fame everything
righteous spouse righteous kids whatever
Allah gives all of that to whom he loves
and to whom he doesn't
love Allah gives it to whom he
loves but he only gives the dean
righteousness the love of Allah to Those
whom he love may Allah make us of Those
whom Allah loves say a mean so this is
how it works many people what do they
say and let's be very honest and
sometimes Shan comes to you and I not
sometimes he always comes right or wrong
or isan accepted Islam say after
me right Shan always on us and I'll end
with this inshallah in one statement
after that what happens people say you
know man I I I'll be honest with you I'm
not questioning God's wisdom but there
are people in this world that hate Allah
and they're living the best life yes or
no not just like they don't worship
Allah no they talk bad about Allah they
actually make fun of Al they hate Muslim
Islam everything and they're the Most
Blessed people you see their homes in
Miami in California in this in Monaco in
Paris you see that you see how healthy
they are they're not just Rich they're
healthy they look good they're fresh
they're famous they're loved by the
people how does that work brother how
does that
work in we remember this for the rest of
our lives especially the youngsters and
the
elders
says what in the world did I just say
the prophet sallallah alaihi wasallam
says if you see Allah giving someone who
continuously disrespects Allah
continuously disobeys Allah continuously
commits the Haram and the sin and
carelessly and Allah continues to give
them it's a
trap did you guys ever have a mouse in
your house remember that
example not in my house that's like
relax okay we all got floods may Allah
protect us right remember that Mouse
what do you do I don't want no one to
come after the session like brother I'm
just giving example okay what happens
when you have a mouse you open the door
right like
sh right sh and the mouse is
like I'm not going anywhere you're
like what happens you go and Google what
should I do when there's a mouse oh oh
my God Tom and
Jerry what do you get
generally cheese right you said cheese
you get cheese the you want the mouse to
leave if you got cheese what happens the
mouse will stay in a trap cheese in a
trap cheese in a trap and a peanut
butter oh so what happens with some mice
today in the shape of humans may Allah
protect
us they see God giving them and they
think it's just like the cheese the
household or the owner or the landlord
is giving them but just like how the
Mouse when he sees the cheese like I
told you other mice who moved out and
sto doing the Haram whatever stay in
this house it's nice and warmer in
Michigan to stay here look if that
landlord has any dignity he would have
never given us cheese if there's even a
landlord to begin with we would have
never had food who's feeding us so they
start licking and eating that cheese and
what happens while they're eating and
eating get smacked and
crushed the punishment comes so now
let's go back to the Hadith and the
example you see Allah giving them and
giving them is just the cheese on that
trap and one day they will be smacked
may Allah protect us I me Allah guide us
all and what's that last line I told
I'll share with you this evil devil
was so angry and then the people said
you told us he will lose hope you told
us he will lack patience you told us
you'll be the first to curse God at his
face that's what he said and guess what
his value grew more and more in our eyes
so this evil man said well you know what
people would be willing to give up
everything for their lives and their
health he has the health he's young he
can have more children he can marry
other woman he can have kids he's smart
he can start a business he can bring it
all back up again if you have the health
it's all about the health what happens
next what happens to his health and one
time
while was praying just like a Salah I
need regular Salah he was in suud and in
his s and his prostration he started to
feel pain in his feet and it got really
bad it got very very bad he wants to get
get up and it was very difficult for him
to stand up and the pain did not stop at
the feet it continued and his knees
start to hurt so much his thighs his
waist his stomach his entire body was
aching this is abnormal he never
experienced something like that so all
that pain he's going through if you see
him you cannot tell just yet it's all
internal until he's struggling to walk
now he getting really bad he's barely
caring himself and his skin starts to
change pimples are developing all over
his body Soares and so on may Allah
protect
us his wife without a doubt she sees
that and she's so shocked and he's
without a doubt in so much pain may
Allah protect us and some of you may
have never went through this before and
may Allah never make you go through it
say a mean don't think it's
righteousness to ask Allah for hardship
it's not but those who went through
something very similar
they know how tough that can be you guys
know about chicken
poox right who raise your hand if you
know about chicken poox just a few
people oh oh mallah all right when we
were kids usually who gets chicken poox
usually people are young kids and it's a
very highly contagious matter it comes
with fever it comes with pain aching
body and what comes it what does it come
with the worst the pimples
when I was young I was terrified in
Saudi Arabia they call angas may Allah
protect us and when someone gets it in
school you got to get like leave right
now and go home and lock yourself up for
like a week or something and we used to
be all terrified why because kids get it
so fast adults not as much so I was so
nervous and even my parents know that
and even my siblings I'm so scared of
the chicken poox because I see my friend
and things like that I remember was
grade four I witnessed someone having it
was scary I heard about it but never
seen it before then I went to middle
school terrified how I survived I was
like one of the very few students I
never got it true story I even moved in
high school and think alhamdulillah I
never got it and if I see someone that
has I would be the first to run away
from it subh I just had this phobia for
I was so
scared I got married no you're joking
W right when I got
married I was coming back from Chicago
convention and something showed up here
and you know how how bad that is right
anywhere but the
forehead another one another one and
then it was all over and I wasn't so
much pain I didn't have children yet I
could not believe a guy in his 20s is
going through a chickenpox
situation I cannot believe it and it was
so bad it was so devastating Allah's my
witness it was one of of the most
painful experiences in my life I never
went to the Masid when I had it I never
left the house I never went to work
never went to school nothing and I
wouldn't allow my own sisters and my own
siblings to come to my that's how bad it
was and even when I went to the bathroom
and you know there's a mirror I would to
open the cabinet not to see myself it
was it was absolute devastation and even
at times I just turn off the lights so
people can avoid and just walk to the
kitchen and so on and so forth and my
family knows what I went through it's
very tough but the $1 million question
is
what how long did it last for right how
long did it last for it was about less
than a week as it started to fade away
alhamdulillah and now we're back alhamd
say please right we're all going to go
back inshallah to a great form if not
in you'll be so beautiful all of us will
be gorgeous inshallah and just an FYI
for the brothers an authentic Hadith
if you want you can ask Allah for it but
men do not have beards in Jenna
authentic narration no beard you want to
ask Allah for a goatee a beard you want
to do braids whatever you want okay but
this is the default settings in Jenna
all right alhamdulillah
anyhow it lasted for a week a month a
year and people start getting very
nervous no one wants to be around a are
you kidding me is that just the pimples
and the sores or actually aching pain
imagine a migraine that is 24
hours it's absolutely something that no
human has ever witnessed and a
maintained his patience and you wonder
like how how the prophet sallallah alai
wasam what did he say the ones who are
tested the most are
prophets but how they're so good then
the prophet says then the and it goes
down to the level ready for the
continuation many of you know this part
very few knows the rest ready for the
rest
you the prophet said each one of you
will be tested according to your
commitment to your
religion how committed you are to your
religion is how much you'll be
tested if you were strongly
committed your test will get an upgrade
Next Level you'll go to whole other
level and if you were just so soft in
the sense that I can't handle
anything your next test will be degraded
to the lower
level does that sound
logical I did the GMAT at Wayne State
and I'm sure many of you did similar
tests and that's how life works the way
the GMAT works you do a question if you
get it right the next question is what
if you get it right what's the next
question if you get it wrong what
happens
that's how D works we accept it when
those matters and test and makes sense
and that's how D works the closer you
are to Allah the more ready you got to
be for the next level and the higher
paycheck may Allah bless you all and you
may say did he not make Dua without a
doubt he did he did Salah he did the
morning and evening but let me share
with you something people are wondering
did he get envied or evil eye did Allah
not listen to his
supplication if and let's be very
realistic great to be realistic
if Allah cured a after two
weeks will he be the a that we all know
of will he reach that level that he has
reached will he be as Allah
says a role model to all Servants of
Allah no so for you to reach a level
sometimes Allah postpones the response
you are looking for you see that there's
a reason for it soam being sick so much
like that eventually someone comes to
him after all that loss of his health
his patience kicks in and then some
people come to him and they
propose Haram resources to be cured does
that happen to us sometimes you're
struggling financially get this job you
need it you're sick take this medication
or drugs or whatever that is
prohibited take this smoke this weed and
this pot and so on and so forth it will
make you feel better it happens in
school to adults may Allah protect us
and when you're so low who celebrates
who does Deka when you're so low at your
lowest point Who's like celebrating Shan
he's a come
Habibi I love it when you're like that I
love when the tears flow on your cheeks
come to the one who wants the best for
you and he loves it when you're so down
and he will love to control you because
that's when he thinks you're the weakest
and Shan send his troops
to and they proposed he tried everything
you made probably Dua and VI whatever
you did it's not working how about this
we heard some superstitious stuff I know
a you're not into this but there's an
idol some people they go to the idol and
they wipe their hands
over and then they get cured so just try
it then
say so was so upset he didn't accept
that he was so angry and when people are
desperate they jump for it sometimes a
sister I know personally may Allah
protect
us she got robbed
good sister inshallah and in some other
sister I have never heard that in my
life this is the only time I heard it
and may Allah not make us return back to
it other sister told her and she said
listen I know someone who deals with Jin
he's a Muslim
brother okay and he's able to
communicate with the Jin to find out who
robbed you from the house that sister is
a righteous sister inshallah
I would never imagine her accepting it
so she called she's like you know what
brother Ma I think I'm going to I'm
going to actually cuz we tried
everything you know police report
whatever the case is maybe maybe it will
work sister if it worked the first one
to hire this Guinea is
FBI if this worked CIA will be the
biggest ginies on
Earth sister who communicates with the
Jin other than the ones who sold their
lives to the gin
to seek that support in that sense in
that sense may Allah protect us so as
strong as she was as a woman she has a
role model to me personally but it was
Subhan Allah because when you're weak
you're so what what's the key word
vulnerable s and after that it took so
long that people no want longer want to
see a they know what they proposed a
we're going willing to buy you a place
just move out of the city how did you
feel when covid was at its peak be
honest and your neighbor was positive
you went to the
basement he terrified oh he's positive
so that's what they thought of him like
oh I don't know you've been doing this
for so many years I don't know what's
going on we can't handle this just get
out of the city just go to like the the
city limits and a the richest man of the
East the wealthiest the righteous the
prophet of Allah he ends up relocating
to a far away place from the people
because they cannot see him because he
looked so repulsive they cannot handle
how he looked like how difficult is that
how painful is that may Allah make it
easy for us and who was there with him
the entire time his wife his wife was
there the entire time unfortunately in
other religious books they criticize the
wife and they say she's the the
basically the one who always the devil
goes through and she's the one who
always ruins things but alhamdulillah in
Islam in the authentic narration that we
have we have one authentic about the
wife that she was righteous that she
helped her husband she struggled and he
struggled for how long an authentic
Hadith this lasted for 18
years he cannot walk the Hadith says she
used to Aid him in Walking she used to
always be next to him this one narration
not he had to sometimes to get up he had
to hold her and she cannot he had to
hold her from her hair just to stand up
and that's how much he was faithful and
struggling for his sake no one was
around the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasam says an authentic Hadith
everyone abandoned a the close and the
near the cousins the
uncles two people came
to and they told
a what they were discussing and look
what happened because some of us can go
through that and sometimes Shan comes to
me you know what they said to one
another before a saw them one guy was
saying how is it possible what a is
going through I'm telling you a must
have done a sin that no human being has
done
before why did you say that his friend
is asking what makes you say that he
committed a major major sin he said he
has been
suffering 18 years of pain ouch ouch
it's not something he just got used to
there's no pain he's in pain every
single day why other than something he
must have done when he was younger
something he did I don't know I'm just
saying and that's why comes to our mind
sometimes yes or no two bad things
happened to us sister two bad things
Allah what she did in high
school a brother loses his job a brother
gets in a terrible marriage Allah I'm
not going to accuse people's intentions
but bro you know think of
it and that's what they thought of so
then one of the two could not handle so
when they went to a he spoke up I'm
going tell you something in my heart we
spoke about it I just want to share it
with you what is it you must okay do do
you remember doing something Haram like
like like Haram like a disaster s what
makes you say that he said for 18 years
you've been suffering this suffering
that no human ever not even fake stories
are like that and you've been going
through this and and Allah has not shown
you mercy so it just say put two
together you know you must have done
something wrong you know what he said
Allah Allah knows best the exact wisdom
but he's optimistic that what I'm going
through is elevation and status in Jenna
but he said well I can tell you
something good I've done and when do you
share that when you're being accused you
can Flex fair enough other than that
don't do it who was accused and flexed
as much as he can because he had
to when he said oh you only hook up your
family you're not a good person he said
who who bought the well of Roma who who
helped the Muslims in battle of who
donated the entire Army he had to do
that because people have to watch what
they're saying because out of everything
a went through this was the toughest you
thought Health his the accusation
against his dignity and those with
dignity they know that's the last thing
I want to be touched I worked way too
hard for my reputation for the sake of
Allah subhana wa tala for some group of
people start spreading rumors I don't
know what he did bro there's an
accusation it's not confirmed yet well
you already spread it so the pain has
already started may Allah forgive us
mean so he said listen I don't know but
I can tell you something this is
authentic Hadith he said I used to I
used to pass by two men fighting and
arguing like verbally one would say wall
W I did not do it the others person says
w w I did not do it and one of them had
to do it in the story so he says I feel
so bad for Allah's name to be mentioned
in a negative way how because one of
them had to be a liar so he was not not
comfortable being in the Gathering not
he did it someone else said Allah in a
bad way someone made a joke about Allah
in front of you you felt bad so he saids
for I used to pay charity to expiate
what happened for my brothers and
sisters that's his level of
ta time has passed and he was so de this
just took him to the if you want to say
Rock Bottom he's almost there and who
did I tell you jumps and dances and
loves what's going
on and who came to
him what does that mean one of the
meanings is that the devil came to him
and start to whisper bad thoughts about
Allah he says
example if a God is good why is he doing
this to
you a don't get me wrong like anyone
else I understand you know they deserve
it they're pretty much losers right but
you donation remember the t-shirts I
mentioned to you the people no one is
hungry under my watch loving family
righteous calls people to Allah why why
does this happen to you just to put
thoughts a I think God is not fair I'm
I'm just being honest I'm being a true
friend of yours I don't think God is
being feir now when he does those
Whispers what does a or people think
it's coming from them and this really
made a struggle and Allah mentions this
Ayah in the Quran
and some of us go through that and I
want to help you out and help myself you
guys ready undivided attention ready
some of the sah and authentic narration
they went to the prophet sallallah
alaihi wasam say sallallahu alhi
wasallam they
said sometimes we have thoughts that are
so bad pay attention I would rather fall
from the sky Crush my body and bones and
not say it oh my goodness what are these
thoughts thoughts of disbelief and kufur
against Allah who are saying this
righteous sahab sahab one of them said
for me I would wish I would be burnt
alive but not utter those
words words such as who created Allah
someone is that has to be before Allah
in a negative sense and you know what
Allah's not fair but but but but they
say I hate it I hate those thoughts it's
so painful I don't want to think of it
so the prophet asks the question
what does it mean do you really hate
having these thoughts does it really
hurt you what did they say
yes allahar allahar allahar
alhamdulillah what what just happened
the prophet says glory be to Allah
alhamdulillah this is a sign that you're
a True
Believer he said
he says praise be to Allah that he
limited the devil to only be able to
whisper that's his limit to whisper so
the prophet says those thoughts are not
from you they're from the devil and when
you are having it in your brain you
think it's from you but since you hate
it it's clearly not from
you and they felt so comfortable and
relieved it's not me alhamdulillah it's
like may Allah protect you someone
writes a bad word did ever see graffiti
a bad word and may Allah protect us in
the washroom behind the door bad words
and you read it like you see how you it
hurt you did it disturb you reading it
is that you who wrote it same thing with
the thoughts it's like you're reading
the bad words in your mind it's not you
who wrote it it's a
Shan when do you get terrified when when
you do not mind the thought so what do
you do three things the prophet told us
ready number one all authentic Hadith
number
one you have this
thought number
two what does it mean do not entertain
them do not go let me search why am I
thinking like like yeah is God Fair
don't search don't entertain it because
you hate it it's not like you really
want to learn more you're respectful no
no you know what you're going through
you know yourself
best cut it don't go no YouTube watch
some f and number three
say I believe in Allah and the prophet
do this as much as you can and Allah
will save you inshallah fair enough so a
was struggling the accusation of his
dignity The Whispers of the shatan and
then Things become very difficult where
one time his wife comes back home why
where was she she was working as a maid
the wife of aam was working as a servant
to go feed her own husband that's how
loyal and faithful she was okay why did
she come back sad because she reached a
point where people no longer want to
hire her they knew that you know what we
don't trust this anymore your husband is
going through this we cannot hire we
cannot have you though you look healthy
for years that say it's over but she
said I was so scared over my husband a
for Hunger what will he go through he
might die so she said I went to go get a
job I pushed myself I applied everywhere
no one was accepting me until she went
to a rich
family and she offered because they used
to prepare themselves and you know make
their hair look beautiful and so on and
so forth and then she proposed would it
be okay if I sell some of my hair and
sell it to you in exchange for food so
Al means the royal family and the rich
people they said of course sounds
phenomenal and who was she again the
granddaughter of
yuam so she cuts her hair half shaves
half her head and she passes the hair on
to that family in exchange for food and
when they gave her the food she went
back to aam and she served him the food
he asked her where did you get the food
from she
said from a job that I just finished and
completed so he continued to eat and
then the day passed and she used to have
a meal just enough for that day then the
next day she used to go look for a job
to and no one was accepting her so she
thought yesterday worked maybe today
we'll work again so she went to another
family wealthy family would you be able
to exchange I'll shave the rest of my
head and I'll give you my hair and then
in exchange you give me some food they
said okay sounds great and she shaved
her entire head and she kept her hijab
on soam does not see so then she came
back home with some good food so Alam
told her where did you get this food
today from then she said um some
work I will not eat
until you tell me exactly how you got
this
food she didn't know what to tell
him so she took her hijab
off and he saw what his wife has went
through and then he
said Ya Allah I have been Afflicted Ya
Allah I've been having a m Ya Allah and
you are the most
merciful he went to crying to Allah all
that happened Shan's Whispers his
friends accusing them and his wife going
through
that Ya Allah I have been Afflicted with
this
Affliction and he made Dua to
Allah and the devil is after me Ya Allah
with those Whispers Ya Allah I hate it
Ya Allah he made this Dua n what does n
mean he called out loud and clear not
yelling
Ya Allah you know when the prophet used
to make Dua in the Battle of bad and his
quot his quat fell on the ground
desperate he was shaken to his core it
was
tough and then the day passed or an hour
or two passed Allah knows how long and
then he had to go wash himself up
relieve himself and these used to walk
to a distance like think of it like a
cabin far away where there's like a
changing room bathroom washroom and so
on whatever the air they used to do at
that time and who was helping him his
wife once again his wife continued to
help him
then when he was taken by his wife she
means he walked aside and
then went to that washroom or that
area when she was
away what does that
mean like he's taking way too long like
you know if you want to you want to use
the washroom you want to change you want
to shower it doesn't usually take that
long and she got got nervous while he
was there and some places and Allah
knows best are and are clean and pure
Allah subhah waa revealed a verse to
Allah
says what Allah told strike the ground
do you think he can do it the way I did
it there's no way he can barely walk
maybe it's this maybe I don't know maybe
he did
this then Allah
says when he did this
allahar water start coming out then
Allah says wash your body with it wash
he's struggling barely doing it as he's
washing all those pimples the sores are
going away he's still in pain he's still
in pain all of is going away washing his
face washing his hands his legs
allahar as he's doing all of this and
Allah says what does that mean drink it
so when he drank it it cleansed the
internal side of his body so he's no
longer in pain he went back to a not
just healthy he went back to being young
and strong he felt very strong back good
girl old
days no better than ever
before and then Allah sent
him clothing from
jenb remember he gave clothing and now
today Allah is giving him clothing
Allah in a good way and a bad way what
goes around comes around and then who
was nervous
who was
panicking nowan is always is panicking
for sure actually that's good the wife
where is this and he's so nervous so
nervous so nervous
then he leaves the area maybe there's a
door allaham and then she sees him she
says oh servant of Allah have you seen
the the man who
suffering who she talking to a her
husband so then he asked her if you see
him will you know him she's
like he's my husband and and anyone can
notice him
anyways so he says to
her I am a he
said you're making fun of
me it's a joke 18 years suffering how
want my husband
a but she said to be honest with you
it's authentic line to be honest with
you
brother when a was healthy like in in a
good shape you look just like him
honestly like like he was healthy like
he's like almost I'm
seeing he laughed
I the the narration says she knew him
from his smile
she came and she hugged
himb look at the
relief with every hardship there is
relief after 18
yearsb she's hugging him obviously the
generation doesn't say but what do you
think she was doing crying what do you
think he was doing probably crying
thanking Allah subhana wa tala and all
that wonderful things happen I was
reviewing this part with my daughter you
know what she told me okay then what I
said then alhamdulillah he got his
health back and then Allah and helped
him out she's like Baba look at the
child I never thought about it she did
she go back and use the
water I'm like
allahar
allahar allahar she's so smart and she
said okay what about her hair it came
back I'm the narrator of the story and
and I forgot that part Subhan Allah how
you audience are so amazing bless you
all say I mean and sometimes you guys
have points better than all the points I
put from my end so that's why some books
of they said that she too got her young
youth back and strength back and
beautiful hair back allahar not just
that Allah subh
authentic start you know the work and so
on just barely two storages of Wheat and
barley and Allah made two clouds pass by
one Cloud stopped above one of the
storage area and made it rain gold and
the other Cloud came to the other
storage area and made it rain silver
Allah and everything all the good stuff
may Allah bless you all say a mean the
story of a ends with two parts ready
Allah says in the
Quran this story is a
lesson the Servants of Allah and what's
the other one lesson for who the first
one this story is a lesson for the
Servants of Allah and the next Ayah
Allah says this is a lesson for those
that have a
brain so this story helps you
emotionally and helps you in sense of
logic how is
that says Allah put this story for the
world to read and know of so every True
Believer and lover of God knows that if
you suffer it doesn't mean Allah hates
you that's the story is for
you you put you lock that angle you lock
that door let Shan go through there no
more because you know the story of Allah
does not hate you oh you who says done
lock it and the keepy what do you do
with it throw it in the ocean the second
one this is a lesson people with brains
what is it life and money comes and goes
your life can change in a second yes or
no so be very careful may Allah cure all
those who are
sick but there's something that you may
say say brother brother before you end
there's one aah what is it I know which
one you think you're talking about what
is it Allah
told when he got his money his wife is
pregnant he got his money and doubled it
Allah says Allah doubled everything he
had but there's one a that
says hold with your hand a bundle of
grass a bundle of what
grass strike with it
do not break your oath we don't have an
authentic for it as in like why did
Allah say that exactly we don't have but
it clearly shows you the following a
made an
oath I will hit someone a number of
times some said 100 times he told
someone I'll smack you a 100 times w at
a point of pain that he was suffering
whatever it may be so Allah does not
want a to break his oath why because
that person cannot be hit or is not
deserving to be hit you see the
difference either cannot so maybe
allaham he said I will beat with the 100
times you cannot physically hitan to be
able to cope with that as an example or
some narration says he got into argument
with his wife whatever the case may be
but what's the the moral of the story
don't
say and just take it lightly and Allah
puts it in the Quran for a reason the
name of Allah is to be honored and
remember
he used to pay pay what experation for
those who use Allah wrongfully so even
the slightest of mistake in a way Allah
did not want a to commit just get that
bundle instead of doing 100 times put a
hundred pieces of grass and lightly
strike and don't break your oath we end
with a Dua of the Prophet sallallahu
alaihi wasallam where the Prophet
sallallahu alai wasallam
says and I pray to Allah feel free to
say a mean Dua in Muslim the prophet
used to always say oh Allah I seek your
Refuge from the taken away of the
blessings you gave me I seek your Refuge
from taking blessings that you gave
me and from my life that is easy and
smooth to change into difficulty and
hardship and Ya Allah I ask you and I
beg you do not let Calamity just come
out of nowhere like a shock to all of us
I don't want this shocking Calamity a
phone call I get or a news that I
receive that is so shocking
unexpected and I seek your Refuge from
anything that can make you angry Ya
Allah this is a Dua that we hold tight
to we know this dun comes to an end may
Allah make us meet may Allah relieve you
all from your hardship say a mean may
Allah lift the hardship off of you and
may Allah make you patient what whatever
you're going through and may Allah allow
us to meet in J there's no pain
[Applause]
[Music]